---
title: Who am I?
description: This is going to be the start of my blog, where I will be covering my personal endeavors, tech, and whatever I would like to write about.
published: false
keywords: [ personal, tech, software engineer, web development, mobile development, cloud computing, the iron yard ]
image: https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:1400/format:webp/1*3TJxYt1noF5bvvYpwE_fwQ.jpeg
date: 01/09/2025
tags: [ personal ]
---

# Prelude

First of all, I would like to introduce myself. My name is Jose Chirivella, and I am a software engineer. I have been
working in the tech industry for over 10 years, and I have a passion for writing code and building products.

I have worked in various companies, from small startups to large corporations, and I have learned a lot from each of
them. I have experience in web development, mobile development, and cloud computing, and I am always looking to learn
new technologies and improve my skills.

I decided to start this blog to share my personal endeavors, tech, and whatever I would like to write about. I hope you
enjoy reading my posts, and feel free to leave a comment if you have any questions or feedback.

Thank you for visiting my blog, and I hope to see you again soon!

## Who am I

Male, 29 years old, married, no kids, 2 dogs that count as kids, 2 siblings. Born in Venezuela, moved to the US in 2014
via the
Green Card Lottery, yeah... I was one of the lucky ones who got selected from millions of people around the world, only
300 thousand get selected, and only 50 thousand get an actual green card after going through a really tough background
checks, medical tests and a one time only interview at the US Embassy to proof the value you bring to the US.

## Life before the US

Both parents worked for the public sector, dad was an Engineer and mom is a Doctor. Dad used to work for one of the
subsidiaries of the main (and only) oil company in Venezuela called PDVSA, and he was laid off when Chavez took over the
presidency.
He couldn't find a job for the longest time due to his age (40) where companies would rather hire younger people without
thinking about pension.
Mom took over as the main provider, even thought she was a Doctor, working for the public sector in Venezuela, doesn't
mean much.
Still, my parents did a lot of sacrifices to give us a good education, and I am forever grateful for that.
I went to a private school, and I was able to learn English from a young age, which helped me a lot when I moved to the
US.
Brother is a Computer Engineer and sister is a Chemical Engineer. I was the only one who didn't graduate from College
*spoiler alert*, but I'll get on that later.

Elementary did ok, High School did terrible, graduated with a low GPA, too lazy to study, did great in Sports (soccer,
tennis and golf)

In Venezuela, and some colleges in the US, if the parent is a Professor at the University, the kids get a one pass entry
without any test or scores to public school which it was one of the best in the nation. I wanted to follow my Mom steps
and become a Doctor, but I didn't have the discipline of studying and Medical school required a lot, but what really
threw me off was the current health system in Venezuela, parents suffering, no supplies, no medicine, no equipment, no
nothing, and I didn't want to be part of that. So, I went with my third option, which was Computer Engineering. Second
option was being a Pilot, but it would mean spending a lot of time travelling and I had a girlfriend at the time which I
eventually married her.

## College

Went to private college, 20 min away from home, curriculum was ok, at the fifth semester it split between network
engineering, software engineering, and hardware engineering. My first programming class, I remember looking at a
terminal, and it was like... Nope. Not for me.
Funny how things change, right?

## The first year as an immigrant in the US

May 2014, I arrived in the US, I was 19 years old, left my high school sweetheart behind, I was in my third/fourth
semester of College. Parents sold everything, left their jobs, moved to another country at 60 years old. I was the
mistake btw, my Mom had me when she was 43 ðŸ˜³

I had a couple of options, go back to college full time, work part-time, or work full time and go to college part-time.
I was going to choose, working part-time and seeing some classes here and there but I encountered an option I didn't
take into consideration because I didn't know their existence to be honest and that was Code Schools.
I first arrived to Charlotte, North Carolina where we had a cousin that was studying at Duke and just launched her own
company. She was the one that told me about Code Schools, and I was like... What is that? She explained to me that it
was and the outcome of it.
At the time, it was 10k for 3 months, intensive, and you would learn how to code and get a job at the end of it. I was
intrigued, I quickly set up a meeting with the Campus director, **Hey Jessica!**, to know more about this coding school
called **The Iron Yard**. They offered multiple courses but the one I was interested was Front-end Engineering.

All this happened in the first two weeks of me arriving to the US, already to a good start. I applied to The Iron Yard
meanwhile we were driving to our final destination which it was Miami, Florida. We had relatives there and they were
really helpful to settle in. While I waited to hear back from The Iron Yard, I started working as an Assistant for a VC
since
he worked closely with all matters related to Venezuela, he wanted somebody who could understand how everything worked
with our troublesome country.

Around August, I heard back from TIY, I was accepted, and I had to start in September. I was excited and eager to start,
bough my first Mac ever, a Macbook Pro 13" with 8gb of RAM and a Intel Processor.
I was STOKED! My cousin, the CEO, offered me board for the first two weeks and she got me a private room in a house with
her best friend.

Everything was going to plan except that chaos started to happen and reality was settling in. I received a call a few
days before starting the course that the Teacher that was going to teach us, got a job offer in another place and they
wanted me to move to South Carolina alone, or stay in Durham but take the Ruby on Rails Engineering course... I knew
nothing about backend, nightmares about the terminal, and databases. But, I didn't want to move in to a strange city in
another state without emotional support.

I decided to stay in Durham and take the Ruby on Rails Engineering course. I was the youngest in the class, 2nd youngest
to possible graduate. Everyone had a different background, different expectations and different goals. I'll probably
cover my experience in another blog post.

Graduated in December 2014, with no job lined up, my roommate needed the room back, and I had to move out by the End of
the month.
I was in a pickle but my parents were there to help me out. I moved to Miami, Florida, where I had relatives, and I
started looking for a job there but no luck on that front until Mid February 2015, when I got the opportunity to go back
to Durham and my cousin told me that a company called Windsor Circle was looking for a Dev Intern for the Summer. Had
the meeting with the Engineering Manager, Ben and went out great, talking about my resume and my experiences which
wasn't much but I think he appreciated the honesty and the willingness to learn.

After a week in Durham, lined up a few calls, meetings, that interview, but it was time to get back to Florida. I didn't
hear back until April, woke up to an early email from the VP of Engineering offering the internship for the summer with
great pay to start in about a week. I was beyond excited, and the timeline couldn't be better since many things lined up
perfectly.

## The first job in tech

I started at Windsor Circle in April 2015, as a Dev Intern, they were using Marionette and BackboneJS for the Front End,
back end was Python, but they were more interested in the Front End for myself. But I knew nothing about Javascript,
just Ruby on Rails and, HTML and some CSS. I was in for a ride, but I was eager to learn and prove myself. My teammates
Brett and Tam were super helpful, they carried me through. I was able to learn a lot from them, and I was able to
commit.
The whole experience at Windsor Circle was delightful, I went through multiple departments, different tasks, talking to
other engineers, and learning from them. My biggest takeaway was at the end when they tasked me to write the first E2E
test for the company, using a library called Nightwatch which used Selenium under the hood, but you had to write
Javascript for the commands. I believe I did a whole suite in like 2 days, my manager was impressed, and they gave me
the news they hire a QA Engineer which he also was impressed by the work I did with my little to none experience.

Second task meaningful was when I was tasked to switch rendering the Front End from the client to the server, I didn't
know what was the difference, and everything was like too much information. But, in a couple of days I had everything
like 90% figured it out, but I couldn't quite get and my teammates taught me that if better to ask for help early than
later. At the end, Ben saw my face and asked me what was wrong, I told him that I couldn't figure it out, I showed him
what I had, and he quickly figured it out what I was missing, a couple of lines of code, switched to the browser, looked
at the network tab and BAM!
The savings were astronomical, it was like 10x faster, and felt smoother also.

It was almost time to wrap up my internship of three months when on the last day, the VP of Engineering told me what
were my plans for the next month. Told him that I had nothing, and he asked me if I wanted to renew my internship for
another month. Which I gladly accepted! I was having a blast, learning a lot, and I was getting paid for it. Then at the
end of the other month, another renewal. We were talking about a full-time position, but they needed a little bit more
speed and investment so they didn't offer me a position, but I left with my head high, and I was proud of what the work
I did. Left with an amazing reference from the VP and my Manager.

Shortly after, I was hired as a contractor for a Marketing agency where I met also amazing people which ended up working
with them multiple times in my 10 years of experience. _I'm watching you Neal and Rob_ <3

## The first startup and web frameworks

Around 2016, from this marketing agency I just mentioned, I decided to move to my first startup called EmployUs. Windsor
was also a startup at the time, but they were growing like crazy, so their startup days were over.

EmployUs was and still is my favorite time in my career, I was the first engineer besides the CTO, Front-end and doing
newly released Angular 2, barely out of beta. Before hiring me, they gave me a small project to do which was my first
time coding with a framework, my experience was all vanilla javascript and jQuery. I was reading the Angular Docs from
top to bottom to get the app working that would get me hired.

My first task with the CTO and CEO was to deliver a mobile app using Ionic which I also had no idea and just thinking
about writing code to deliver a mobile app was intimidating. **I did it in a month!** I was proud of myself, and I was
just getting better at coding. Working with Matt (the CTO) was a slap in the face every day since the guy is so freaking
smart. It was like he was seeing the matrix and Ryan (the CEO) was the visionary. I was learning a lot and it was time
to hire our second engineer and decided to bring along a guy I used to work with at the marketing agency who taught me
many things. Here comes Rob to the table, and we were just, the three of us, killing it. We had power days every
Tuesdays
and Thursdays where we worked 16 hours straight, and we were just in the zone. We were building a product that was going
to change the way companies referred employees.

The whole idea of EmployUs was an internal system / admin site where internal employees could refer others to that
company easily. We just made it so easy to keep track of and the payout. Since I got Rob referred, I got a referral
bonus for using our app and the first referral in our company history for it.

### A sad ending

Around March 2017, the company didn't have much runway to keep going, and I remember it vividly when I was in the zone
coding, we had a daily all hands, but I was just killing it. Walking to the elevator, thinking about the problem at
hand, got into the meeting, still thinking about the issue at hand and I just hear Ryan that this is going to be the
**last day** for everybody. I froze. I was in shock.

It felt like a heartbreak where you are just processing what just happened and you are just in shock. I was in a daze
and I remember looking at Rob like holy $%$&. What now?

## The first big company

After EmployUs, it was a sad time for me because I wasn't ready to look for jobs, I was still in shock. I was depressed.
Every interview felt like a humiliation, I am just not good enough, smart enough and I was just in a dark place. I just
suck at job interviews.

One day, a recruiter called me. Cisco System was hiring. Yeah... That Cisco. That was like a dream company to work at,
and my brother since he was IT. I remember talking to the recruiter about the interview process, he was like...
Relaxxxxxx... It's going to be fine. They are just going to ask you about your resume and experience and that's it.

### The interview

Arrived at Cisco, they had 12 buildings in RTP... Like... :blown_away:

I was greeted by some Manager, and he took me to the interview room, and I was greeted by 5 people. 5! I was like...
Wat.

From right to left, they were the Manager, 3 Senior Engineers and some Front End Engineer from another team.

I just kept saying to my head, relax, it's going to be fine. They are just going to ask you about your resume.

First question. Can you tell me the command to see the processes running in a Linux VM? *in a russian accent*

WHAT

Luckily I knew the answer, and in that quick second of me thinking, oh ^%%#$, this is going to be another humiliation
and hard interview. I replied. Yeah, is `px aux`

Him: Ok, and if I want to filter by a specific process? *more russian*

Me: `px aux | grep process`

Him: Ok, that's all I needed to know. *russian smile*

After that, the hard questions kept coming by, more in the sense of my experience. The last guy asked me really good
questions of Angular, RxJs, and Observables. There were some I didn't know and I was honest about it. I didn't know.

After the interview, I received a call from the recruiter asking how it went? I told him, "you lied to me, they didn't
ask just about my experience" and proceeded to tell him about it.

I wasn't sure that I got the job until a few days later he calls me laughing... Dude, you got the job, they were
impressed. The upper manager was having some doubts that you didn't have a College Degree but the people on the
interview defended you which it was impressive.

I cried and proceeded to tell my parents that I got the job at Cisco and my dad's face was of proud and happiness.

## The Lead

## What I am doing now (written in Jan 2025)
